Docs for Typescript definitions #430 (#431)
enonic/doc-xp: docs/api.adoc

Some are straight helper classes, other provide interaction with the data in the site.
Please check out all of them in the submenu.

== TypeScript definitions

=== Install

> To add types for corresponding library use NPM (or similar package manager) and install them as any other depencency. All types can be found under https://www.npmjs.com/org/enonic-types[@enonic-types] organization on NPM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add types for corresponding library use NPM (or similar package manager) and install them as any other dependency. All types can be found under https://www.npmjs.com/org/enonic-types[@enonic-types] organisation on NPM.
```

==== Libraries

> For example, you have a `lib-auth` gradle dependecy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you have a `lib-auth` gradle dependency:
```

```gradle
dependencies {
  include "com.enonic.xp:lib-auth:${xpVersion}"
}
```

> To add types, just use the same library's name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add type definitions for the library, install dependency from NPM:
```

```bash
npm i --save-dev @enonic-types/lib-auth
```

==== Global

> Along with library types it may be useful to install definitions for XP global objects (`app`, `__`, `log`) and functions (`resolve`, `require`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Along with library types it may be useful to install definitions for global objects (`app`, `__`, `log`) and functions (`resolve`, `require`):
```

```bash
npm i --save-dev @enonic-types/global
```

=== Use

==== tsconfig.json

Add the corresponding types to your `tsconfig.json` file that is used for application's server-side TypeScript code:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "typeRoots": [
      "node_modules/@types",
      "node_modules/@enonic-types"
    ]
  }
}
```

> > The paths to the `node_modules` assume that your `tsconfig.json` is placed under your project root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The paths to the `node_modules` assume that your `tsconfig.json` is placed in your project root.
```

After that, all the global XP variables will be typed.

> Adding not `"types": [...]` but `"typeRoots"` will allow to discover types for every other enonic library, that will be installed later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `"typeRoots"` instead of `"types": [...]` will allow to discover types for any other Enonic library, that will be installed later.
```

Import functions, such as `require`, will return typed objects if the corresponding types for imported libraries are also added to your `tsconfig.json`.

==== require

> After types are installed and configured in `tsconfig.json`, libraries can be imported just like they were in JS code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After types are installed and configured in `tsconfig.json`, libraries can be imported just like they would be in JS code:
```

```ts
const libAuth = require('/lib/xp/auth');
```

==== ES6-style import

If you are planning to use `import` in your code and transpile it with the default `tsc` TypeScript compiler, you'll need to add proper types mapping to your configuration via `baseUrl` and `paths` properties in `tsconfig.json`:
```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "types": [
      "@enonic-types/lib-auth"
    ]
    "baseUrl": "./",
    "paths": {
      "/lib/xp/auth": ["node_modules/@enonic-types/lib-auth"],
    }
  }
}
```

Then in your code:

```ts
import {login, logout, getUser, generatePassword} from '/lib/xp/auth';
```

> Setting `baseUrl` and `paths` will allow the `tsc` to keep the valid paths in the resulting JavaScript files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring `baseUrl` and `paths` will allow the TypeScript compiler to keep the valid paths in the resulting JavaScript files.
```

=== Configuration

==== Require

> To add support for type resolution for the custom libraries via `require`, you can redeclare the `XpLibraries` interface in global scope, which will lead to declaration merging:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add support for type resolution for custom libraries via `require`, you can redeclare the `XpLibraries` interface in global scope, which will lead to declaration merging:
```

```ts
declare global {
    interface XpLibraries {
        '/lib/custom/mylib': typeof import('./mylib');
    }
}
```

===== Other imports

If you want to use custom import functions, like `__non_webpack_require__` with Webpack, just use global `XpRequire` type for this:

```ts
declare const __non_webpack_require__: XpRequire;
```

==== Beans

> To create a new bean, a `__.newBean()` function must be used. Making it return a proper type can be done in two ways. Say you have create an interface for that been somewhere in your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new Java bean, the `__.newBean()` function must be used. Making it return a proper type can be done in two ways. Let's say, you have created an interface for that bean somewhere in your project:
```
